I saw this photo from before
he transferred here, and he just...
-All right, everybody.
-Oh, my God!
Everybody, please.
Relax, calm down.
Grace, since you're on your phone,
you must be prepared
to explain where we left off
the other day.
-Catch me up if you... if you don't mind.
-[Grace] Sure, Mr. Pope.
Um... yesterday, we left off with what
we would have done in Nazi Germany.
Would we have stood up to the fascists
or would we have followed them
and joined them?
That's right.
That is what we were talking about. Um...
Have you come up
with any thoughts on that?
What would you have done?
Any ideas?
I like to think that I would have stood up
to the fascists
and gone against them.
But I know that was really scary...
'cause they were turning kids
against their parents
and putting people in concentration camps
and killing people.
So I wanna believe
that I would have done that,
but I don't actually know.
[Pope] Right.
Yeah, and it's more than that.
It's impossible to know
what it would have felt like at the time.
In hindsight, we can all say,
"I would've said something.
It would have been obvious.
It would have been easy."
But we're about to look at the example
of one particular family
who wasn't able
to see what was right or wrong.
They were going along
with what the mentality of the time was.
-[school bell rings]
-[chattering]
-Your place?
-Yeah, my place, of course.
-Hi, guys.
-Guys, we're gonna do homework.
-We're going.
-[girl] Do homework?
-Homework?
-Yeah.
-[boy] Text us.
-Shut up. We're doing homework.
-Okay, bye!
-Thank you! Thank you!
-Diet Coke?
-Sure.
-What?
-I need to know when your parents--
-Oh, my God. Again? Seriously?
-I just... I was just checking.
-You're always freaking out!
-I'm not...
-[laughs] I'm not freaking out.
-There's no one here.
-There's never anyone here.
-I'm not freaking out.
Oh, my God. Look... [chuckles]
my mom won't be home for another hour.
And my dad never gets home till,
like, ten.
-Forever. Forever.
-Forever.
[chuckles] He's never home.
[grunts]
-[Jake moaning] Yes.
-[sighs]
[Jake and Grace chattering]
[Grace] Okay.
[moaning and kissing]
[chuckling]
Grace? Are you in there? Oh, gee!
-[Dad] Cover up.
-Yeah.
-You've got ten seconds.
-Dad!
[Jake] My pants were on, sir.
-Eight, nine...
-[Grace] Dad!
I'm sick one day and this happens.
What about the days I'm not sick?
What else is she doing?
Our heads have been in our asses.
I feel bad.
I think we thought we were on easy street.
Like,
"She's almost finished the school year."
"Then she's gonna go to college.
It'll be great."
"She's not doing drugs and having sex
when we're not here."
Her grades are good.
Are we sure?
I haven't been on that website in a while.
-Have you?
-Forgot my password.
-You should go talk to her.
-I'm gonna go talk to her.
Okay. There will be wine waiting for you.
-There better be.
-[chuckles]
[door rattles]
-[knock on door]
-[sighs]
[Grace exhales]
First of all, I'd like to separate
what happened today
-into two categories, okay?
-Okay.
One...
I don't want you to feel bad
about being sexually active.
I feel really strongly about that.
You're not in trouble for that.
We'll talk about that another time,
because I am very angry
about the second thing,
which is that you basically lied to us
and that's unacceptable, Grace.
There's no reason for it.
You don't have hardly any rules.
I can really only think of the one rule,
which is don't have friends over
after school without asking us first.
Maybe the other rule is don't lie to us,
but I didn't think that even needed
to be a rule, okay?
Yeah, but I only lied to you because--
I know, but now I am willing
to treat you like an adult.
I don't feel like punishing you
like you're some kind of child anymore.
I don't wanna take away your cell phone
or credit card or ground you.
I don't even know what that means
for a senior in high school.
But one thing I am gonna ask you to do,
and I think you know what I mean
when I say "ask,"
is I want you to come to church
with your dad and I
every Sunday until you leave for college.
And that is--
What?
It's non-negotiable.
That's what I'll ask you to do,
and I'm being very fair.
-I think your father's being very fair.
-I-- [sighs]
-I don't believe in that, so I...
-I know that.
...don't see the point of me going
to church with you.
The point is I asked you to do something,
and I want you to do it.
-Every Sunday? Until college?
-Every Sunday.
Minus the one when we're going
on vacation, but, yes, every Sunday.
I mean, I don't have a say, do I?
No.
Sometimes, there's muffins afterwards.
-[Grace] Yay, muffins.
-It's gonna be great.
-We could get them at the store.
-[laughs]
-But these are really bad muffins.
-Yeah! [chuckles]
So worth it.
Phil, look at you. So good to see you.
-Andy! Hello! Good to see you.
-Good morning, Father, great to see you.
-You remember Grace.
-Grace!
-Hi.
-How lovely to see you again.
-It's been a while.
-Welcome back. Hi, Gretchen.
So good to see you.
-Good to see the family together.
-I know.
[Father Timothy] Hello...
And Jesus said to his disciples,
"Only with difficulty will a rich person
enter the kingdom of heaven.
Again, I tell you,
it is easier for a camel
to go through the eye of a needle
than for a rich person
to enter the kingdom of heaven."
When the disciples heard this,
they were greatly astonished, saying,
"Who then can be saved?"
-Here we go.
-Yeah.
-Have a great time.
-I don't wanna go.
Might not be so bad.
[Grace] I don't wanna hang out
with these people.
You said the same thing about Thai food,
and now you love it.
-This isn't Thai food.
-You do love Thai food.
-[Dad] Maybe it is!
-[Grace] It's not Thai food.
-Hi, I'm Stephanie.
-Nice to meet you. I'm Gretchen.
Nice to meet you.
-Andrew. This is Grace.
-Andrew, nice to meet you.
-[Grace] Hi.
-Welcome. Glad you're here.
All right, you all set? Have a great time.
-Okay.
-See you later this afternoon, honey.
-Bye.
-Have fun.
Bye!
-This is for you.
-Thanks.
Help yourself to a snack
or whatever you'd like.
Everyone, this is Grace.
She's new,
so be sure to introduce yourself.
"I tell you, it is easier for a camel
to go through the eye of a needle
than for a rich person
to enter the kingdom of God."
[Stephanie] I'll stop you there.
Uh...
Yeah, so what does this mean?
Does that mean it's impossible
for a rich person to go to heaven?
Did he say "impossible?" I think he said,
like, with great difficulty.
-It's harder.
-But he said it's easier for a camel to...
-I think it's referencing--
-That's impossible.
There was a trade route
on the way to a marketplace.
And there was a narrow pass that you had
to fit through and it was called--
It was like an eye of a needle,
because the camel would have to unload
what it was carrying to go through.
I know there was another interpretation
saying that it's rope through the needle
rather than a camel through a needle.
Yeah.
Which makes more sense to me,
because a rope and thread make...
They're similar.
But it's impossible to put rope through
the eye of a needle as well.
Well, I mean, not actually a rope,
it's just a bunch of small threads.
We could argue that,
"You have to peel away a couple of layers
until it's a smaller thread."
So if we don't get rid of that stuff,
then my parents, for example,
they're not gonna go to heaven, right?
So I'm hearing you may be questioning
your own attachment to your possessions
and to your wealth and--
I mean, we have camping gear in the garage
that we've used once in ten years.
There are homeless people out there
on the street that could use a tent,
but we don't give it away.
We just have it because we have stuff.
And how can they say that they're gonna go
to heaven and they're religious,
that they're Christian if they don't
even practice what Jesus tells us to do?
I think being able to separate them,
it may not always be
in this physical form--
Right, but we can say that we believe
and practice all we want,
but unless we prove it...
then what is the point?
Then we're just hypocrites.
[knock on door]
-Night.
-Good night.
What are you reading?
Oh, just the Bible.
[whistles] Wow. Cool.
Yeah, it's really interesting.
I'm really glad you made me go
to Bible study.
I am so glad to hear that.
Yeah, we had such a good discussion
about the sermon that we had today.
-Yeah.
-About how it's near impossible
-for rich people to go to heaven.
-Right.
Yeah.
That is one of the big quotes
from the Bible that you hear a lot.
Yeah, I mean, Jesus actually said it,
so it's true, it's like...
-Yeah.
-Unless you give away your wealth,
-you're pretty much not going...
-Right.
So, you know,
if we wanna be good Christians,
we need to, I don't know,
change the way we are, I guess.
Yeah, it's definitely a lot
to think about.
-Yeah.
-When you start to really get into it.
Yeah, the discussion was interesting,
'cause everyone in this neighborhood
is rich, pretty much, you know?
Yeah, we're all really lucky.
We're really lucky and selfish, I guess,
'cause we're not giving it
to other people.
-Well, that can be debatable, but--
-No.
I think Jesus made it pretty clear.
-Yeah. It's a lot to study.
-Yeah.
There's lots of interpretations
of the Bible. That's one of 'em.
Yeah, I don't get the interpretations.
It's like, he said it, so it's the truth.
I'm glad you're enjoying it
and reading up on it.
-That's great, honey.
-Yeah. I'm so glad you made me go.
I'm glad you liked it.
I'll see you in the morning.
I'll let you know if I find out
anything else interesting.
I'm sure you will.
-It's a big book.
-I'm sure I will. Good night.
Good night.
Hey. I'd like to talk to the bank manager.
So this is a significant withdrawal
that you wanna make today.
Yeah.
Do you mind if I ask what it's for?
Oh... The church.
-Just the church?
-Yeah.
I want to give it to my local church.
-Wow. It's a big decision.
-Yeah.
-Did you talk to your parents--
-Oh, yeah.
No, they're super supportive,
'cause they're really Christian
and they're the ones
that really wanted me to do it.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
Well, wonderful.
-You just have to fill out this form.
-Yeah. Cool.
-And it's 48,000...
-600...
...and 14.
Okay, cool.
-So you've thought about this?
-Oh, yeah.
I'm 100% certain.
And my parents are gonna be
so proud of me.
[Dad] If you're such a big adult
making all these
wonderful adult decisions,
maybe you should go
and live your life somewhere else
and get your own goddamn house!
You wanna throw me out of the house
because I wanna help people?
-[Dad] Goodbye.
-Is that what Jesus would want?
-Don't turn this around on us.
-Don't make this about Jesus!
This is about you breaking rules
and not accepting punishment.
You wanted me to find Jesus.
-I found Jesus.
-[Dad] Go find him in your own apartment.
Look, I'm gonna go down to the church
and get the check back, okay?
-We can reset this.
-I already gave it to them.
If you still want to give the money,
you can,
but we're gonna do this together,
as a family,
and maybe we will calm down
and do this like rational human beings.
Can we do that? Can we do that for me?
While you're there,
make sure you talk to the priest
about what being a good Christian means.
You just don't know when to stop.
I'm trying to help you.
No greater gift has been given this church
than Grace's gift.
And she's just--
[sighs] she's found the Lord.
[Dad] So, about that.
I mean, I'm not sure she gave you
the truest representation
of her actual motivations
-at this moment.
-To give from the heart
and forestall college to--
-Yes, but--
-to do what she's doing now.
We do think she is still going to college.
Oh, no. No, she is going to be
doing missionary work.
She would like to go to Africa.
She wants to do missionary work
in Botswana, perhaps Nigeria.
-Isn't that exciting?
-That is exciting.
That would be very exciting. [chuckles]
-If that is what she chooses to do, but--
-She's not spoken with you about this?
Look, we had an issue at home.
And I think she felt
that this would be a way to...
um, uh... make a point.
Do you not want her to do God's work?
-Is this what I'm hearing?
-That's a very hard question
for me to answer at this exact moment,
because of course I do want her
to do God's work,
but she can do it in so many other ways
than giving away all of this money,
which was supposed to help her.
It will help hundreds of people,
as will her work in Africa.
She's not going to Africa.
The girl who was here two hours ago,
she's on a mission.
I will bet you $48,000 she doesn't go
to Botswana.
Is it here? Can I...
I could just take the check.
-I don't--
-It's not your money.
-It's not even my money.
-It kind of is my money.
It's God's money now.
-He wouldn't give the money back.
-[sighs]
Fuck that guy!
It was my money.
I'm allowed to do what I want with it.
-And she's giving it to--
-I was giving it to good people.
And I proved a point, okay?
My parents pretend
to be these great Christians,
but really they're just great capitalists.
-Yeah.
-Seriously.
I am a great capitalist, and my heart
is breaking listening to this.
But you are owning that.
Do you see what I mean?
They are pretending
that they would do this.
They are pretending that they would make
donations and help people, but they don't.
When it actually came to me doing it,
they were pissed.
-I'm pissed. I'm pissed.
-They're such hypocrites, though.
And I hate that,
and I just want to prove that point.
They want me to be more spiritual?
I'll show them what they really are.
[footsteps approaching]
-[Dad] Good morning.
-Morning.
-[Mom] Hi, babe.
-Hey.
When you're done with breakfast,
you'll wanna get dressed,
'cause we gotta leave for the barbecue
in about an hour.
Oh. Um...
I can't go to that.
-How come?
-I said I would volunteer today.
Can you volunteer another day?
'Cause this is supposed
to be a family event.
Um...
-No, I can't.
-Grace, this is a work thing.
-It's been on the calendar for a month.
-You know what, honey?
Andrew, if she wants to--
wants to volunteer, let her volunteer.
-[Dad] It's a family barbecue.
-[Mom] It's fine. Go volunteer.
Thank you.
Okay.
Have fun volunteering.
I will. Thank you.
Have fun at your barbecue.
Can we just not right now?
So basically,
it's a three-part station here.
-Grace.
-Hey.
-Hi. I'm so glad you came.
-Hi. Yeah.
-Hi.
-Hey.
-You know these guys from class.
-I'm Jo. Nice to meet you.
-Maybe you could show her around?
-I'd love to.
Can I steal her for the delivery?
-We're going soon.
-That's perfect.
-You're gonna follow me.
-Sure.
Okay, awesome.
-Thank you for helping today.
-Of course.
-You're in high school?
-Yeah. I'm a senior.
-Oh, nice.
-Yeah.
What are you doing after?
Uh... I'm gonna go to college. I just...
I got into a few schools.
I'm not sure where.
-I'm actually gonna move that.
-Sorry.
I got it. No worries.
So you know Stephanie from the church?
No. I'm not religious.
I don't go to church
or anything like that.
I volunteer here so I know her from there.
That's really cool.
I'm not really religious, either.
My parents just make me go to church.
Well, at least it got you here, right?
Yeah.
What's up, Sylvester? How are you doing?
Throw those down.
We're ready whenever you are.
We're gonna stack 'em there.
Follow my lead.
Once you put 'em down, just go right back.
I'm gonna take the first box.
And you take the second.
Just follow my lead.
Throw them in right here.
It's gonna move fast, so once
you put it down, just get back in line.
Sure.
So you do this all the time?
[man] Yeah. When I can.
It doesn't always work with my schedule,
but it's nice to come here and help out.
Here you go. Have a good one.
So, for some of them,
this is their only meal today?
Yeah, could be.
Oh...
Hi.
-[chuckles] Good job.
-Thanks.
Okay. Come on in.
-Thank you.
Yeah, make yourself at home.
There's the kitchen through there
if you want to eat.
[man] Thanks.
Okay.
Here we go.
I got some stuff here...
for you guys.
Just some tents and sleeping bags,
so take whatever you want.
And I'll go get you guys some clothes,
and you guys can take a shower.
-[man] All right. Nice stuff.
-Okay.
If I have to talk to Belinda one more time
about the carpet
-she chose for the guest room...
-I'm sorry.
I didn't see you over there
for the longest time
or I would have come get you.
I swear to God, every year.
Why doesn't she just change it
if she hates it so much?
She's gone through two decorators,
and I can't tell the difference
between either one,
and she still doesn't have a light fixture
in the entryway.
-[laughs] She's busy with the big picture.
-Edison bulbs are not a light fixture.
I don't care what anyone says.
They're so stupid.
-I don't know that--
-I almost told you--
Hello.
-Hi.
-Hi. Who's this?
Uh, these are some friends that I made
at the food pantry today.
This is James and Dolores and Bob.
-Hello. How are we doing?
-Hi.
-[Bob] Great. Great.
-[James] Lousy.
Uh... you guys volunteer there as well?
-We go there quite often.
-Sort of. Sort of.
-Yeah.
-Oh!
-What do we got here?
Oh! Just... I put some stuff
that we don't really need in there.
Like, food and clothes and camping stuff.
Yeah. We don't need these bags.
-We've had these forever.
-That's a delicious chardonnay.
-[James] It's very tasty. Really.
-[Dolores] Wonderful.
Yeah. Sure.
So if you are done with the car,
I was gonna drop them home to-- where?
-Horner Park.
You know what? I got it.
I'll run them back. No worries.
-Yeah, let Dad do it.
-Yeah.
-Are you sure?
-Yeah. Why don't you just let me--
Help me carry this stuff to the car.
Okay. Sure.
-I like your blouse. [chuckles]
-[Dolores] I love the color.
It's beautiful.
Universally flattering, that color pink.
[Bob] Sure is.
-Will you excuse me for one second?
-[James] Sure.
Sure.
All right, Grace, you win.
You don't wanna go to church,
you don't have to go to church.
You're not allowed to go to church.
No more going to church.
No more reading the Bible.
I don't wanna see you with that book again
for a month.
-You can't say she can't go to church.
-Yes, I can. This is too far.
You can't tell her she can't read
the Bible and can't go to church.
Just let me explain, please.
Explain away. Love to hear this.
I get it, okay? The past few weeks,
I have done some stuff.
-Okay. I get it.
-[Dad] Really?
-But that is not what this is about.
-Really?
I went to the food pantry today,
and I met them, and they just needed help.
I know we have clothes here
and camping equipment we don't use
and food we throw away
at the end of the week
so all I wanted to do was help them.
And give them a shower.
What is wrong with that?
-[Mom] I appreciate that.
-That is it.
I think what you're doing is great.
From the kindness of your heart
with no ulterior motive, I'm sure.
-Honey...
-Dad.
You know what's happening as well as I do.
I know what's happened.
-I don't know what's happening.
-That's not what I'm trying to do now.
That's not what I'm trying to do.
I actually genuinely just wanted
to help them.
Okay. Congratulations.
Whatever is happening is working
on me right now, okay?
-Let's take them to their underpass.
-We're talking about this later.
-All right, folks, let's head out.
-Not an underpass.
-Sorry, the park.
-Here we go. You name the... park.
Look, just come back in when...
-[pop music playing]
-[cheering]
[chattering]
Grace!
Oh, my God. Hello.
I know what you did.
I heard. I heard everything.
-You're insane.
-What?
You're dating a crazy person.
Are you aware of this?
[Jake] I didn't say anything.
What is going on?
Do you know what this crazy girl did?
-Hey, what did this crazy girl do?
-What did she do?
Don't be posh.
She brought homeless people into her house
-and gave them her parents' clothes.
-[Jake] I didn't say anything.
-I didn't say anything--
-Taking rebellion to the next level.
-[girl] Why did you do that?
-They're just people.
[girl 2] Do you know them?
What are their names?
-It's James and Dolores and Bob.
-James and Dolores and Bob.
Yes, I know them.
I met them at the food pantry.
-The food pantry!
-And your parents were okay with this?
Of course they weren't okay with it.
That's the whole point.
-Wait, so...
-She has gone method.
-Can you please back me up?
-I just...
-It was no big deal.
-[chattering]
Okay, I need drinks!
Drinks? Anyone want drinks?
Drinks? Drinks?
-We'll be back later.
-All right.
Don't they have showers
at the homeless shelter?
[Grace sighs]
You okay?
-Yeah, that was just... intense.
-[chuckles]
I mean, they're just joking around.
Yeah, it just...
I don't know, the way they said it
kind of sounded fucked up.
They didn't mean anything by it.
It's a party, it's not--
-It's not a big deal.
-Yeah. No, you're right...
-Right?
-Yeah.
-Drinks. Yes.
-Drinks? Okay.
[bell tolling]
The Lord be with you.
[all] And with your spirit.
May Almighty God bless you.
The Father and the Son
and the Holy Spirit.
[all] Amen.
Go and announce the gospel of the Lord.
-[all] Thanks be to God.
-[kisses]
Uh, before we depart today,
I want to thank a very special lamb of God
for a very special donation
that has allowed us to finish
the much needed renovation of our altar.
Thank you.
-Are you... are you serious?
-[stammers]
You... you spent $50,000 on an altar?
-It hadn't been done since 1957 and--
-[Grace] You--
There are starving children out there.
There are homeless people,
and you spent my $50,000
on an altar for you?
[mumbles]
-Travertine marble's very expensive.
-[Grace] So you just--
Does no one else think this is insane?
-Are you serious? No. [scoffs]
-[murmuring]
Grace--
[Grace] Don't!
[Father Timothy] Nevertheless...
[Stephanie] Grace!
-Grace!
-What?
I am so sorry. You must be so angry...
How are you not?
No, listen, my priorities are
not the same as Father Timothy's, okay?
[laughs] Then how can you be
at this church?
How can you be okay with what he did?
-I gave him $50,000!
-I know. I know. I know.
That could have gone to charities
that you work with.
You're okay with that?
I don't want you to walk away
from this experience feeling
like giving is not valuable, okay?
What you've done is extremely generous.
How? Seriously? I gave and it got taken
from me and put to nothing.
You are such a special person.
And what you've done--
What does that even mean?
Don't give up.
Just don't give up because of this.
I just did.
[sighs]
[Grace] I...
[chuckles] just...
wanted to punish them for some reason.
Well, yeah.
When somebody's making you do
something you don't wanna do,
you wanna get back at them, obviously.
I get where you're coming from, but...
You're so young.
Like, you will grow up to be
whoever you wanna be and...
religion will seem like a minuscule,
insignificant way to get there.
-Yeah.
-But it'll teach you along the way.
Thanks.
Come here.
Don't be sad.
Okay.
She's just in the kitchen.
-Thank you for calling us, Stephanie.
-Of course.
I really appreciate it.
-[Dad] Thanks, Stephanie.
-Yeah. Of course.
-Come here.
-[Dad chuckles]
Oh! Honey.
-Stephanie told us what happened.
-[both laugh]
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
-So sorry.
-Baby. Sweet girl.
-Come here. I'm sorry, honey.
-No, I'm sorry, Dad. I'm sorry.
I was... I was awful.
-That was crazy though, right?
-Yeah. A little bit.
-[Mom] Are you okay?
-I yelled at a priest.
You know what? I kind of did, too.
[all laugh]
I guess I'm up next.
It kind of felt amazing.
-[Dad] Right?
-Yeah.
That's okay. You don't have to go back
if you don't want to.
I don't want to.
-I don't think she'll be allowed to.
-Right. [chuckles]
-We're really proud of you.
-We are.
-Yeah?
-[Dad] Look at you.
-You're pretty awesome.
-Yeah.
I really like this.
-This? All right.
-Yeah.
I'll try it.
-You will?
-Got more of those aprons?
-You want an apron?
-Mm-hmm.
Okay.
But if you're gonna be in the kitchen,
you need gloves and hairnets, so...
-We'll get out of the kitchen.
-I figured you might say that.
I never felt really comfortable
in the kitchen.
Just two of these?
-[Dad] How are you?
-How about a loaf of bread?
Do we have peanut butter?
We got mac and cheese. We got fruits.
Fruit time. Apple.
[chattering]
[folk music playing]
[vocalizing]
♪ Just another field to plow ♪
♪ Just a grain of wheat ♪
♪ Just a sack of seed to sow ♪
♪ And the children eat ♪
[vocalizing]
♪ Just another life to live ♪
♪ Just a word to say ♪
♪ Just another love to give ♪
♪ And a diamond day ♪
[vocalizing]